# **Android Based Tennis Ball Collector**

2012 - CS308 Course Project  
Project website : [e-yantra.org](http://www.e-yantra.org)  
It is developed as a Embedded and Real Time Systems course project at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT Bombay)   

# Project Description  
The aim of our project is to build a completely remotely controlled Firebird using the power of Android.
What we have choosen to demonstrate is this project.  

Android mobile processes the video stream (received via Wi-Fi) captured by the IP camera mounted on Firebird V bot, 
detects the presence or absence of TT ball and sends appropriate signal to the bot via Bluetooth.
The bot then analyses the signal received and acts accordingly.  

## Team Members  
*Team 14*  
1. [Hasan Kumar Reddy](http://github.com/mintuhouse)    (09005065)  
2. [Vinod Reddy G](http://github.com/vinodreddy2804)    (09005071)  
3. [Bhanu Prakash](http://github.com/bp414)             (09005050)  
4. [Avinash T](http://github.com/dimpleiitb)            (09005056)  


## Project Setup  
	* Setup the as shown in [Hardware manual](Documentation/HardwareManual.pdf)
	* Install /bin/RemoteTennisBallCollector.apk in your mobile
	* Burn the firebird/defult/Tennisball.hex onto firebird
	* Connect both IPCamera and mobile to same Wi-Fi network
	* Start the Application
	* Enjoy!
	

## Modules - code description
	### Android
		* root folder of the project/
			** jni/
			** libs/
			** res/
			** src/
			** AndroidManifest.xml
			** default.properties
			** ... other files ...
			where
			the *src* folder contains Java code of the application,  
			the *res* folder contains resources of the application (images, xml files describing UI layout , etc),  
			the *libs* folder will contain native libraries after successful build,  
			and the *jni* folder contains C/C++ application source code and NDK’s build scripts Android.mk and Application.mk.
			These scripts control the C++ build process (they are written in Makefile language).  
			Also the root folder should contain the following files  
			*AndroidManifest.xml* file presents essential information about application to the Android system (name of the Application, name of main application’s package, components of the application, required permissions, etc)  
			It can be created using Eclipse wizard or android tool from Android SDK  
			*default.properties* is a text file containing information about target Android platform and other build details.
			This file is generated by Eclipse or can be created with android tool from Android SDK  
		* src\com\eyantra\android\tennisball
			** *BallCollectorActivity.java* - main class which does all control actions
			** *Bluetooth.java* - Bluetooth communciation module
			** *DeviceListActivity* - List the dveices for bluetooth
			** *OpenCV* - OpenCV Java wrapper for C++ files in jni/ folder
			** *ReloadImageView* - Class to reload images at regular interval (not used)
		* res/
			** *layout/* - main layout 
			** *drawable/* - images and sub-layouts used
			** *values/strings.xml - Strings used in code
		* jni/
			** *cvjni.cpp* - contains C++ Open CV functions to be used in other places
			** *cv/* and *cvcore/* - opencv library files
	### Firebird
		* *Tennisball.c* - firebird controller actions. Receives signal from Bluetooth and acts accordingly.
		
		
## Developer's Setup
Use the Hardware and Software Setup manuals for complete set of instructions.  
### Softwares Setup:  
* AVR Studio 
* Open CV for Android Environment setup
	** Refer: http://opencv.itseez.com/doc/tutorials/introduction/android_binary_package/android_binary_package.html
	** Download [NVPACK](http://developer.nvidia.com/tegra-android-development-pack)
	** Download [OpenCV](http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencvlibrary/files/opencv-android/2.3.1/OpenCV-2.3.1-android-bin.tar.bz2/download)
	** Start the Eclipse and choose your workspace location.
	** Configure your ADT plugin
	** Import OpenCV and samples into workspace.
* Setup C++ OpenCV Environment setup
	** http://opencv.itseez.com/doc/tutorials/introduction/android_binary_package/android_binary_package_using_with_NDK.html#android-binary-package-with-ndk
	** Download [Android NDK](http://developer.android.com/sdk/ndk/index.html)
	** Follow all instructions for [Eclipse Setup](http://opencv.itseez.com/doc/tutorials/introduction/android_binary_package/android_binary_package_using_with_NDK.html#android-ndk-integration-with-eclipse)
*By this time all your sample files should be working perfectly fine*
* Download the example files
	** http://www.stanford.edu/~zxwang/android_opencv.html
	** Download opencv [files](http://www.stanford.edu/~zxwang/file/android_opencv.tar.gz) and put them in jni folder of your android application root directory
*You are ready to go!!*

#### Troubleshooting
* Google it!

### Hardware Setup:
	* Refer the Hardware setup manual complete set of instructions.

## References
	youtube link to project setup
	various other links


********************************************************************************  
## Copyright & License  
ERTS Lab, IIT Bombay 2012  
Copyright &copy; 2010, ERTS Lab IIT Bombay erts@cse.iitb.ac.in        
   All rights reserved.

   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:  

   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  

   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
     the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
     distribution.  

   * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of
     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
     from this software without specific prior written permission.  

   * Source code can be used for academic purpose. 
	 For commercial use permission form the author needs to be taken.  

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
  LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
  SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
  INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
  CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
  ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
  POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  Software released under Creative Commence cc by-nc-sa licence.  
  For legal information refer to:   
  http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/legalcode  

********************************************************************************